# NLCD_INEGI: Harmonized US-Mexico Land Cover Classifications from NLCD and INEGI, 1992/2001/2011

This project contains scripts used to created harmonized US-Mexico land cover classifications for years 1992, 2001, and 2011.

## Starting points:
For Mexico, the INEGI Usos de Suelo y Vegetacion classifications, SERIE I - V, which represent years 1985, 1993, 2002, 2007, and 2011. For the continental US, the NLCD land cover products for years 1992, 2001, and 2011, plus the NLCD 1992/2001 land cover change retrofit product.

The harmonized/rasterized versions of the Usos de Suelo y Vegetacion products (generated by the tools in the tools/INEGI folder) are available on [Zenodo](https://www.zenodo.org/record/2579442). If using these harmonized/rasterized classifications, the steps in the "INEGI" portion of the project can be skipped, and processing can start with the "NLCD_INEGI" tools.

The NLCD products can be obtained from [MRLC](https://www.mrlc.gov/data).

## Contents:
1. tools/
 - INEGI/ - arcPy scripts for harmonizing the INEGI Usos de Suelo y Vegetacion classifications with the NLCD 2011 classification categories, reprojecting to geographic, and rasterizing.
 - NLCD_INEGI/ - tools written in C and Perl for constructing an NLCD 1992 product consistent with the classifications of NLCD 2001 and 2011, and for merging the NLCD maps with the INEGI maps.
2. docs/
 - [Processing_of_INEGI_USOSV_dataset.docx](docs/Processing_of_INEGI_USOSV_dataset.docx) - Description of procedure for harmonizing the INEGI Usos de Suelo y Vegetacion classifications with the NLCD 2011 classification categories, reprojecting to geographic, and rasterizing.
 - [Processing_NLCD_INEGI.md](docs/Processing_NLCD_INEGI.md) - Description of procedure for constructing an NLCD 1992 product consistent with the classifications of NLCD 2001 and 2011, and for merging the NLCD maps with the INEGI maps.
